README.md, before:

# Rust Monad Kata

This is a kata I have adapted from Mighty Byte's Monad Challenge for
Haskell: http://mightybyte.github.io/monad-challenges/pages/set1.html
The intent of the original challenge is to guide the user into a more
natural understanding of how monads are constructed and why you need
monads. I've implemented the Random Number portion of this kata in
many languages and I wanted to have a go at trying it with Rust.  My
normal approach differs slightly from the original challenge, so I
will document the steps that I suggest for Rust.

Note: I think that everything in this kata so far can be done
with the stable compiler.  It would be nice to implement `apply`
and use it for `sequence`, but I suspect it is currently
impossible.  I will update this kata as I learn more.

## Pseudo-Random Number Generation

Computers do not usually generate actual random numbers when you call
a function like `random()`.  Discussion of pseudo-random number
generators is outside of the scope of this document, but if you are
interested, a good first step might be Wikipedia:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator

What you need to know for this kata is that a pseudo-random number
generator generates a series of output in a specified range.  The
output is deterministic, but not easily predictable without running
the algorithm itself.

The random number function takes a "seed" value and generates an
output.  It always returns the same output for the same seed value.
For example, if your "seed" is 42, the random number function might
always output 2432.  The random number function *also* outputs the
next seed.  You use that seed to get the next number in the series.
Pseudo-random number generators are built so that the output is
uniformly distributed in the desired range.

### Step 1.  Building a "Pseudo-random" generator function

We could use a good random number generator to give realistic output
for our kata, but there is no real need.  Instead our "pseduo-random"
generator will be much simpler:

  - Add a type for a `Seed` that is a 32 bit unsigned integer
  - Write a function called `rand` that takes a `Seed` as input
    and outputs a tuple composed of a 32 bit unsigned integer
	and a Seed.
  - The "random value" that `rand` returns will be equal to the
    seed that you used as input.  The next seed it returns will
	be equal to the previous seed plus 1.

The effect is that if you call `rand(1)` you will receive `(1, 2)`.
If you call `rand(2)` you will receive `(2, 3)`, etc.  Not a great
random number generator, but it will be easy to test.

You must write unit tests for this kata.  Since you can't easily
test an infinite series (and such a challenge is not what this kata
is for), just test a couple of examples.

### Step 2. Playing with assignments

Values of type `Seed` and the tuples that we have are stack allocated.
They implement a "trait" called `Copy`.  What that means is that when
you do an assignment, the value is copied.

We also need to work with heap allocated data structures.  An example
of a Heap allocated data structure is a `Vec` (vector).  These data structures
implement a "trait" called `Move`.  That means that when you do an
assignment, the "ownership" of the memory moves.

Note: A "trait" is kind of like an interface.  It's a promise to the
compiler that there are specific functions implemented for that data
type.  We will talk more about traits later.

We will try to illustrate the difference simply:

  - Write a function that makes a local variable `a` and a local
    variable `b`.  Assign `a` the value 5 and assign `let b = a;`.
    Then return `a + b`.  Write a test to ensure that the result
    is 10.
  - Write a second function that also has local variables `a` and
    `b`.  Assign a `Vec` containing a single value, 5, to `a`.  Assign
    `let b = a;`, like in the previous function.  Add the contents
    together (something like `a[0] + b[0]`).  Write a test to ensure
    that the result is 10.

The second task is impossible.  Try to understand the error message.

### Step 3. A Vector of Random Integers

Write a function, called `five_rands`, that generates a `Vec` of 5
"random" 32 bit unsigned integers.  Start with a seed of 1.  The
output should be `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`.

There are lots of ways to cheat with this, but try not to.  You will
need to call `rand(1)` to get the first "random" number.  After that
you will need to use the seed from the previous random number to
generate the next random number.

While doing this, you will probably notice that Rust variables are
immutable by default.  You can make a variable mutable with the `mut`
keyword. It is fairly easy to implement this function with mutable
variables.  It is quite challenging to make a non-ugly function
without using `mut`.  It's worth giving it a go, but don't kill
yourself.  The rest of this kata is discovering how to implement this
function easily without mutating any data.

### Step 4. Different kinds of random values

We want to make a different random generator.  This one will return
"random" chars.  It will be called `rand_letter` and it will take
a `Seed` and return a tuple with a `char` and a `Seed`.
`rand_letter(1)` should return `('a', 2)`, `rand_letter(2)` should
return `('b', 3)`, etc.

Additionally, write a function, called `three_rand_letters`, that
returns a `String` (not a `Vec`!) containing 3 "random" letters.
Start with a seed of 1.  The output should be "abc".  The same
notes about Step 3 apply here.

### Step 5. Many kinds of generator functions

We really want to make a variety of different random numbers.
Implement the following:

  - `rand_even`: The same as rand, but each random number is
    multiplied by 2.
  - `rand_odd`: The same as rand, but rach random number is multplied
    by 2 and has one added to it (`x * 2 + 1`)

We could do a million of these.  It would be better to factor out the
common code.  Avert your gaze from the next step and spend some time
playing with refactoring the code.

### Step 6. Making a Trait

As it happens, what we are trying to do is very common.  There
is a special word for the thing that we are trying to build:
"functor".

A "functor" is really a special word for a container.  It has to
follow some special rules, but any container you are familiar with is
likely to also be a functor.  All functors must have a function
associated with it, usually called `map`.

You may be familiar with `map` on arrays from a variety of different
languages.  However, `map` can be used on any functor.  `map`
takes the contents out of the container, applies a function to the
contents and then puts the results back into the same kind of
container.

We're going to implement a `Rand` functor on tuples like
`(uint32, Seed)` and make it a trait called `Functor`.

Note: I haven't done this yet, so the instructions may be subtly
wrong.

  - Make a type called `Rand` for a tuple that contains an unsigned
    32 bit integer and a `Seed`.
  - Write a function called `rand_map`.  It should have the following
    type signature: `fn rand_map(fn(uint32) -> uint32, Rand) -> Rand`
  - Make a trait called `Functor` with a `map` function and implement
    this function with `rand_map`.
  - Use the `map` functionality in `rand_even` and `rand_odd`.

### Step 7. What about `rand_letter`?

Our `Functor` trait is pretty awesome but it's kind of pointless if we
only have a single type.

  - Create a type for the output of `rand_letter` called `RandLetter`,
  - Create a `map` implementation for it
  - Refactor `rand_letter` to use that implementation.

Note: This is impossible.  Why?

### Step 8. Parametric Polymorphism

Raise your hand if you think CS has the *best* jargon of any field!

Because of what you discovered in Step 7, you can't write a single
trait for Rand and RandLetter without using parametric types.

  - Refactor `Rand` and `RandLetter` into one type `Rand<T>`.
  - Use `Rand<T>` in your implementation of `map`

Note: If you look at the documentation, every example sends a
reference from `self` (i.e. `&self` into the functions.  If you do
that, you will have to worry about lifetimes.  Because we are only
using data types with the `Copy` trait, save yourself lots of trouble
and use `self` so that it copies the values rather than moving them.

### Step 9. Generating Random Pairs

Write a function, called `rand_pair` that takes a `Seed` and outputs
a tuple like the following: `((char, uint32), Seed)`.  For example,
`rand_pair(1)` should return `(('a', 2), 3)`.  So basically you have
to use the seed in the return value from `rand_letter` as the seed
in `rand`.

### Step 10. Generator Types

It would be nice to be able to output pairs of any kind of type.
Ideally, we would like to implement `rand_pair` by passing the
functions `rand_letter` and `rand` and having that function
construct the tuple.  Specifying the parameter list as
`fn general_pair<A,B>(gena: fn(Seed) -> (A, Seed), genb: fn(Seed) -> (B, Seed), Seed) -> ((A, B), Seed)`
is a gigantic PITA.

  - Make a single parametric type, `Gen<T>`, for the functions `rand` and
    `rand_letter`.
  - Write a function, `general_pair`, that takes a `Gen<A>`, a `Gen<B>` and a
    `Seed` and returns the correct random pair.
  - Refactor `rand_pair` to use `general_pair`.

### Step 11. Returning a Closure

Why do we bother passing the `Seed` into `general_pair`?  `general_pair`
doesn't have to actually calculate everything immediately.

  - Don't pass the `Seed` to `general_pair`.  Instead have it return a
    closure that takes a `Seed` as a parameter.  `rand_pair` should
    look something like: `general_pair(rand_letter, rand)(seed)`.

Spoiler #1: For very good reasons, Rust implements functions and closures
differently.  The type of a function is `fn(...) -> ...` The type of a
closure is `Fn(...) -> ...`.  When Rust returns a value from a
function, it uses the memory allocated on the stack in the calling
function.  For example if `f` calls `g` and `g` returns a value, the
memory for that value is allocated in the stack frame for `f`.

Unfortunately, a closure (`Fn`) has indeterminate size.  It could be
anything.  `f` can't know the size of the closure that `g` will return
until `g` runs -- at which point it is too late.  To solve the
problem, you can allocate the `Fn` in `g` on the heap and pass a smart
pointer back to f.  When that smart pointer goes out of scope in `f`
it will deallocate the memory for the closure.  Since a smart pointer
has a defined size, you can do this.

To do this you need to create a `Box` for the closure.  The return
type becomes something like (but not exactly like) `Box<Fn(...) -> ...>`.

Spoiler #2: The final boxed function closes over the parameters sent
to `general_pair`.  In that way it is also a container.  The problem
that you will probably find is that the compiler complains about
lifetimes of objects.  Somehow you have to link the lifetime of the
returned `Box` to the lifetimes of the `Gen<A>` and `Gen<B>` that you
are passing to the function.

### Step 12. An Inconvenient Truth

If you continue on with this kata in this fashion, you will run into a
problem.  The `Rand` type is a functor, but it is *not* an
"applicative functor".  It is worthwhile going down this road and
understanding why, but it's quite a long diversion.  In order to save
time, we'll jump directly to the solution.  Later you may wish to come
back and explore why you can't continue with the `Rand` type.

So even without knowing what an "applicative functor" is and why we need
it, let's make a change.  To give you a slight premonition, when you
look at the type `Rand<T>` it depends on 2 things: the result
and the `Seed`.  In contrast, the `Gen<T>` generator types only depend
on the `Seed`.  The result is generated from the `Seed`.  If we
refactor our code to use `Gen<T>` instead of `Rand<T>` it will improve
things dramatically.

But is `Gen<T>` a functor?  What does that mean?  Is a function a
container?  As we saw in step 11, it is!  It contains the values that
it closes over.  You can happily implement `map` for `Gen<T>`.

  - Add the `Functor` trait to `Gen<T>` by implementing `map` for it.
  - Rewrite `rand_letter`, `rand_even` and `rand_odd` to use `map` on
    `Gen<T>`.

There is an unfortunate caveat here: `map` is supposed to take a
container, take out the contents, apply a function and then put the
result back into the same kind of container.  `Gen<T>` is the
container and is a function, but we've seen that Rust functions can
not return a function.  It can only return a boxed closure.  This is
not the same type.  We'll roll with it, but this may eventually cause
us problems.

### Step 13. Working with Pairs

It would be nice to build pairs of random values, but not just in a
tuple.  For example, making a pair of random values in a `String`.

  - Write a function `gen_lift2` that allows you to do this.

Hint: It's very similar to `gen_map`, but with 2 `Gen<T>` values
instead of one.

Note: It will be very tempting to implement this function using
`gen_map`, but for now resist that temptation.

#### Side Tour. Applicative Functors

At this point I would *really* like to introduce the applicative
functor.  Unfortunately, I think it is probably impossible to
implement using the stable version of the Rust compiler.  But because
I am a Rust novice, it is very possible that I'm wrong and I will
write the details here for anyone who is interested in trying.

`gen_lift2` is very similar to `gen_map`, but combines the output of 2
`Gen<T>`s into one.  The function you pass to `gen_lift2` has a type
signature of `fn(A, B) -> C`.  As I mentioned in the warning earlier,
it's very tempting to use `gen_map` in the implementation.  `gen_map`
uses a function with a signature of `fn(A) -> B`, though.  How do you
convert from one to the other.

In a more usual functional language, you would simply "curry" the
value.  For example, if I am supposed to call a function like
`my_func(a, b)`, I can "partially apply" the function by passing only
the first parameter.  The result is a function that takes the second
parameter. In other words, I can do `my_func(a)(b)` and it will have
the same output.

Let's say that I am writing `gen_lift2` and I just naively pass the
incoming function directly to `gen_map`. Assume `f: Fn(A, B) -> C`,
`ga: Gen<A>` and `gb: Gen<B>`.  So ideally, what would `gen_map(f, ga)`
return?

In an ideal world, it would return `Gen<Fn(B) -> C>` because it would
just partially apply the first parameter to the function and return a
new function wrapped in a `Gen`.

What we need now is a function that can apply the *second* (and
potentially subsequent) parameters to the function.  That function is
called `apply`.  If you can write `apply` for your functor, then you
have an "applicative functor".  Surprisingly, not all functors are
applicative.  In fact, `Rand` is an example of a functor that is not
applicative.

  - Write a function `gen_apply` that takes a `Gen<Fn(A) -> B>` and
    a `Gen<A>` and returns `B`.
  - Refactor `gen_lift2` to use `gen_map` and `gen_apply`.  This is
    likely impossible.

### Step 14. Vectors of Generators

Being able to generate a pair of random values is slightly useful.
However, we really want to be able to generate an arbitrarily sized
vector of random values.  What would be nice is:

  - Write a function, `gen_sequence`, that takes a `Vec` of `Gen<T>` and
    generates a `Gen<Vec<T>>`.  In orther words it takes a vector of
    generators and returns a Generator that gives you a random vector
    of values.

As a usage example:
```
  let gs = vec![rand, rand, rand, rand, rand];
  assert_eq!(vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5], gen_sequence(gs)(1).0);
```

#### Side Tour. With `apply`

If you implemented `gen_apply`, try to implement `gen_sequence` using
it.  Again, this is likely impossible.

### Step 15. On our way to a Monad

You may think the battle has been won at this point, and you are
correct.  It is now easy to do what we wanted to do.  However, there
are a few things to clean up.

When you implemented `gen_sequence` you will have had to deal with the
case where the vector passed to the function is empty (you *did* handle
that didn't you?).  In that case you will have had to make a `Gen`
that held an empty array.  This is a situation that comes up
frequently.

  - Write a function called `gen_pure` that takes any `A` and returns
    a `Gen<A>`.  Note: historically `pure` has gone by many names
    (`unit` and `return` being the most popular).  I think most people
    are settling on the name `pure` these days, so that's what I chose
    for this kata.

### Step 16. Chaining functions

Note: This section needs some work to make it more obvious why you
want to do this.

Recall the generators `rand_even` and `rand_odd`.  They are almost the
same.  One of them applies the function `x * 2` and the other applies
the function `x * 2 + 1`.  It would be interesting to define one in
terms of the other.

  - Write a function called `gen_bind` that takes a `Gen<A>`
    and a `Fn(A -> Gen<B>)` and returns a `Gen<B>`.
  - Make a trait called `Monad` that requires `bind` and `pure` and
    give `Gen<T>` that trait.
  - Implement `rand_odd` usinging `rand_even` and `bind`

Commit message:

Add Gen<T> and Functor for Gen<T> trait

README.md, after:

# Rust Monad Kata

This is a kata I have adapted from Mighty Byte's Monad Challenge for
Haskell: http://mightybyte.github.io/monad-challenges/pages/set1.html
The intent of the original challenge is to guide the user into a more
natural understanding of how monads are constructed and why you need
monads. I've implemented the Random Number portion of this kata in
many languages and I wanted to have a go at trying it with Rust.  My
normal approach differs slightly from the original challenge, so I
will document the steps that I suggest for Rust.

Note: I think that everything in this kata so far can be done
with the stable compiler.  It would be nice to implement `apply`
and use it for `sequence`, but I suspect it is currently
impossible.  I will update this kata as I learn more.

## Pseudo-Random Number Generation

Computers do not usually generate actual random numbers when you call
a function like `random()`.  Discussion of pseudo-random number
generators is outside of the scope of this document, but if you are
interested, a good first step might be Wikipedia:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator

What you need to know for this kata is that a pseudo-random number
generator generates a series of output in a specified range.  The
output is deterministic, but not easily predictable without running
the algorithm itself.

The random number function takes a "seed" value and generates an
output.  It always returns the same output for the same seed value.
For example, if your "seed" is 42, the random number function might
always output 2432.  The random number function *also* outputs the
next seed.  You use that seed to get the next number in the series.
Pseudo-random number generators are built so that the output is
uniformly distributed in the desired range.

### Step 1.  Building a "Pseudo-random" generator function

We could use a good random number generator to give realistic output
for our kata, but there is no real need.  Instead our "pseduo-random"
generator will be much simpler:

  - Add a type for a `Seed` that is a 32 bit unsigned integer
  - Write a function called `rand` that takes a `Seed` as input
    and outputs a tuple composed of a 32 bit unsigned integer
	and a Seed.
  - The "random value" that `rand` returns will be equal to the
    seed that you used as input.  The next seed it returns will
	be equal to the previous seed plus 1.

The effect is that if you call `rand(1)` you will receive `(1, 2)`.
If you call `rand(2)` you will receive `(2, 3)`, etc.  Not a great
random number generator, but it will be easy to test.

You must write unit tests for this kata.  Since you can't easily
test an infinite series (and such a challenge is not what this kata
is for), just test a couple of examples.

### Step 2. Playing with assignments

Values of type `Seed` and the tuples that we have are stack allocated.
They implement a "trait" called `Copy`.  What that means is that when
you do an assignment, the value is copied.

We also need to work with heap allocated data structures.  An example
of a Heap allocated data structure is a `Vec` (vector).  These data structures
implement a "trait" called `Move`.  That means that when you do an
assignment, the "ownership" of the memory moves.

Note: A "trait" is kind of like an interface.  It's a promise to the
compiler that there are specific functions implemented for that data
type.  We will talk more about traits later.

We will try to illustrate the difference simply:

  - Write a function that makes a local variable `a` and a local
    variable `b`.  Assign `a` the value 5 and assign `let b = a;`.
    Then return `a + b`.  Write a test to ensure that the result
    is 10.
  - Write a second function that also has local variables `a` and
    `b`.  Assign a `Vec` containing a single value, 5, to `a`.  Assign
    `let b = a;`, like in the previous function.  Add the contents
    together (something like `a[0] + b[0]`).  Write a test to ensure
    that the result is 10.

The second task is impossible.  Try to understand the error message.

### Step 3. A Vector of Random Integers

Write a function, called `five_rands`, that generates a `Vec` of 5
"random" 32 bit unsigned integers.  Start with a seed of 1.  The
output should be `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`.

There are lots of ways to cheat with this, but try not to.  You will
need to call `rand(1)` to get the first "random" number.  After that
you will need to use the seed from the previous random number to
generate the next random number.

While doing this, you will probably notice that Rust variables are
immutable by default.  You can make a variable mutable with the `mut`
keyword. It is fairly easy to implement this function with mutable
variables.  It is quite challenging to make a non-ugly function
without using `mut`.  It's worth giving it a go, but don't kill
yourself.  The rest of this kata is discovering how to implement this
function easily without mutating any data.

### Step 4. Different kinds of random values

We want to make a different random generator.  This one will return
"random" chars.  It will be called `rand_letter` and it will take
a `Seed` and return a tuple with a `char` and a `Seed`.
`rand_letter(1)` should return `('a', 2)`, `rand_letter(2)` should
return `('b', 3)`, etc.

Additionally, write a function, called `three_rand_letters`, that
returns a `String` (not a `Vec`!) containing 3 "random" letters.
Start with a seed of 1.  The output should be "abc".  The same
notes about Step 3 apply here.

### Step 5. Many kinds of generator functions

We really want to make a variety of different random numbers.
Implement the following:

  - `rand_even`: The same as rand, but each random number is
    multiplied by 2.
  - `rand_odd`: The same as rand, but rach random number is multplied
    by 2 and has one added to it (`x * 2 + 1`)

We could do a million of these.  It would be better to factor out the
common code.  Avert your gaze from the next step and spend some time
playing with refactoring the code.

### Step 6. Making a Trait

As it happens, what we are trying to do is very common.  There
is a special word for the thing that we are trying to build:
"functor".

A "functor" is really a special word for a container.  It has to
follow some special rules, but any container you are familiar with is
likely to also be a functor.  All functors must have a function
associated with it, usually called `map`.

You may be familiar with `map` on arrays from a variety of different
languages.  However, `map` can be used on any functor.  `map`
takes the contents out of the container, applies a function to the
contents and then puts the results back into the same kind of
container.

We're going to implement a `Rand` functor on tuples like
`(uint32, Seed)` and make it a trait called `Functor`.

Note: I haven't done this yet, so the instructions may be subtly
wrong.

  - Make a type called `Rand` for a tuple that contains an unsigned
    32 bit integer and a `Seed`.
  - Write a function called `rand_map`.  It should have the following
    type signature: `fn rand_map(fn(uint32) -> uint32, Rand) -> Rand`
  - Make a trait called `Functor` with a `map` function and implement
    this function with `rand_map`.
  - Use the `map` functionality in `rand_even` and `rand_odd`.

### Step 7. What about `rand_letter`?

Our `Functor` trait is pretty awesome but it's kind of pointless if we
only have a single type.

  - Create a type for the output of `rand_letter` called `RandLetter`,
  - Create a `map` implementation for it
  - Refactor `rand_letter` to use that implementation.

Note: This is impossible.  Why?

### Step 8. Parametric Polymorphism

Raise your hand if you think CS has the *best* jargon of any field!

Because of what you discovered in Step 7, you can't write a single
trait for Rand and RandLetter without using parametric types.

  - Refactor `Rand` and `RandLetter` into one type `Rand<T>`.
  - Use `Rand<T>` in your implementation of `map`

Note: If you look at the documentation, every example sends a
reference from `self` (i.e. `&self` into the functions.  If you do
that, you will have to worry about lifetimes.  Because we are only
using data types with the `Copy` trait, save yourself lots of trouble
and use `self` so that it copies the values rather than moving them.

### Step 9. Generating Random Pairs

Write a function, called `rand_pair` that takes a `Seed` and outputs
a tuple like the following: `((char, uint32), Seed)`.  For example,
`rand_pair(1)` should return `(('a', 2), 3)`.  So basically you have
to use the seed in the return value from `rand_letter` as the seed
in `rand`.

### Step 10. Generator Types

It would be nice to be able to output pairs of any kind of type.
Ideally, we would like to implement `rand_pair` by passing the
functions `rand_letter` and `rand` and having that function
construct the tuple.  Specifying the parameter list as
`fn general_pair<A,B>(gena: fn(Seed) -> (A, Seed), genb: fn(Seed) -> (B, Seed), Seed) -> ((A, B), Seed)`
is a gigantic PITA.

  - Make a single parametric type, `Gen<T>`, for the functions `rand` and
    `rand_letter`.
  - Write a function, `general_pair`, that takes a `Gen<A>`, a `Gen<B>` and a
    `Seed` and returns the correct random pair.
  - Refactor `rand_pair` to use `general_pair`.

### Step 11. Returning a Closure

Why do we bother passing the `Seed` into `general_pair`?  `general_pair`
doesn't have to actually calculate everything immediately.

  - Don't pass the `Seed` to `general_pair`.  Instead have it return a
    closure that takes a `Seed` as a parameter.  `rand_pair` should
    look something like: `general_pair(rand_letter, rand)(seed)`.

Spoiler #1: For very good reasons, Rust implements functions and closures
differently.  The type of a function is `fn(...) -> ...` The type of a
closure is `Fn(...) -> ...`.  When Rust returns a value from a
function, it uses the memory allocated on the stack in the calling
function.  For example if `f` calls `g` and `g` returns a value, the
memory for that value is allocated in the stack frame for `f`.

Unfortunately, a closure (`Fn`) has indeterminate size.  It could be
anything.  `f` can't know the size of the closure that `g` will return
until `g` runs -- at which point it is too late.  To solve the
problem, you can allocate the `Fn` in `g` on the heap and pass a smart
pointer back to f.  When that smart pointer goes out of scope in `f`
it will deallocate the memory for the closure.  Since a smart pointer
has a defined size, you can do this.

To do this you need to create a `Box` for the closure.  The return
type becomes something like (but not exactly like) `Box<Fn(...) -> ...>`.

Spoiler #2: The final boxed function closes over the parameters sent
to `general_pair`.  In that way it is also a container.  The problem
that you will probably find is that the compiler complains about
lifetimes of objects.  Somehow you have to link the lifetime of the
returned `Box` to the lifetimes of the `Gen<A>` and `Gen<B>` that you
are passing to the function.

### Step 12. An Inconvenient Truth

If you continue on with this kata in this fashion, you will run into a
problem.  The `Rand` type is a functor, but it is *not* an
"applicative functor".  It is worthwhile going down this road and
understanding why, but it's quite a long diversion.  In order to save
time, we'll jump directly to the solution.  Later you may wish to come
back and explore why you can't continue with the `Rand` type.

So even without knowing what an "applicative functor" is and why we need
it, let's make a change.  To give you a slight premonition, when you
look at the type `Rand<T>` it depends on 2 things: the result
and the `Seed`.  In contrast, the `Gen<T>` generator types only depend
on the `Seed`.  The result is generated from the `Seed`.  If we
refactor our code to use `Gen<T>` instead of `Rand<T>` it will improve
things dramatically.

But is `Gen<T>` a functor?  What does that mean?  Is a function a
container?  As we saw in step 11, it is!  It contains the values that
it closes over.  You can happily implement `map` for `Gen<T>`.

  - Add the `Functor` trait to `Gen<T>` by implementing `map` for it.
  - Rewrite `rand_letter`, `rand_even` and `rand_odd` to use `map` on
    `Gen<T>`.

There is an unfortunate caveat here: `map` is supposed to take a
container, take out the contents, apply a function and then put the
result back into the same kind of container.  `Gen<T>` is the
container and is a function, but we've seen that Rust functions can
not return a function.  It can only return a boxed closure.  This is
not the same type.  We'll roll with it, but this may eventually cause
us problems.

Spoiler #1: Once you get the trait written you will find that it does
not work.  That's because Rust does not do type inference on
functions.  This is very unfortunate, but you can solve the problem by
doing something lie `(rand as Gen<u32>).map(...)`.

### Step 13. Working with Pairs

It would be nice to build pairs of random values, but not just in a
tuple.  For example, making a pair of random values in a `String`.

  - Write a function `gen_lift2` that allows you to do this.

Hint: It's very similar to `gen_map`, but with 2 `Gen<T>` values
instead of one.

Note: It will be very tempting to implement this function using
`gen_map`, but for now resist that temptation.

#### Side Tour. Applicative Functors

At this point I would *really* like to introduce the applicative
functor.  Unfortunately, I think it is probably impossible to
implement using the stable version of the Rust compiler.  But because
I am a Rust novice, it is very possible that I'm wrong and I will
write the details here for anyone who is interested in trying.

`gen_lift2` is very similar to `gen_map`, but combines the output of 2
`Gen<T>`s into one.  The function you pass to `gen_lift2` has a type
signature of `fn(A, B) -> C`.  As I mentioned in the warning earlier,
it's very tempting to use `gen_map` in the implementation.  `gen_map`
uses a function with a signature of `fn(A) -> B`, though.  How do you
convert from one to the other.

In a more usual functional language, you would simply "curry" the
value.  For example, if I am supposed to call a function like
`my_func(a, b)`, I can "partially apply" the function by passing only
the first parameter.  The result is a function that takes the second
parameter. In other words, I can do `my_func(a)(b)` and it will have
the same output.

Let's say that I am writing `gen_lift2` and I just naively pass the
incoming function directly to `gen_map`. Assume `f: Fn(A, B) -> C`,
`ga: Gen<A>` and `gb: Gen<B>`.  So ideally, what would `gen_map(f, ga)`
return?

In an ideal world, it would return `Gen<Fn(B) -> C>` because it would
just partially apply the first parameter to the function and return a
new function wrapped in a `Gen`.

What we need now is a function that can apply the *second* (and
potentially subsequent) parameters to the function.  That function is
called `apply`.  If you can write `apply` for your functor, then you
have an "applicative functor".  Surprisingly, not all functors are
applicative.  In fact, `Rand` is an example of a functor that is not
applicative.

  - Write a function `gen_apply` that takes a `Gen<Fn(A) -> B>` and
    a `Gen<A>` and returns `B`.
  - Refactor `gen_lift2` to use `gen_map` and `gen_apply`.  This is
    likely impossible.

### Step 14. Vectors of Generators

Being able to generate a pair of random values is slightly useful.
However, we really want to be able to generate an arbitrarily sized
vector of random values.  What would be nice is:

  - Write a function, `gen_sequence`, that takes a `Vec` of `Gen<T>` and
    generates a `Gen<Vec<T>>`.  In orther words it takes a vector of
    generators and returns a Generator that gives you a random vector
    of values.

As a usage example:
```
  let gs = vec![rand, rand, rand, rand, rand];
  assert_eq!(vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5], gen_sequence(gs)(1).0);
```

#### Side Tour. With `apply`

If you implemented `gen_apply`, try to implement `gen_sequence` using
it.  Again, this is likely impossible.

### Step 15. On our way to a Monad

You may think the battle has been won at this point, and you are
correct.  It is now easy to do what we wanted to do.  However, there
are a few things to clean up.

When you implemented `gen_sequence` you will have had to deal with the
case where the vector passed to the function is empty (you *did* handle
that didn't you?).  In that case you will have had to make a `Gen`
that held an empty array.  This is a situation that comes up
frequently.

  - Write a function called `gen_pure` that takes any `A` and returns
    a `Gen<A>`.  Note: historically `pure` has gone by many names
    (`unit` and `return` being the most popular).  I think most people
    are settling on the name `pure` these days, so that's what I chose
    for this kata.

### Step 16. Chaining functions

Note: This section needs some work to make it more obvious why you
want to do this.

Recall the generators `rand_even` and `rand_odd`.  They are almost the
same.  One of them applies the function `x * 2` and the other applies
the function `x * 2 + 1`.  It would be interesting to define one in
terms of the other.

  - Write a function called `gen_bind` that takes a `Gen<A>`
    and a `Fn(A -> Gen<B>)` and returns a `Gen<B>`.
  - Make a trait called `Monad` that requires `bind` and `pure` and
    give `Gen<T>` that trait.
  - Implement `rand_odd` usinging `rand_even` and `bind`
